# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 5.1

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

This article contains all changes in backward compatibility in the Sitefinity CMS 5.1 release. The introduced changes are the following:
- Several modules were decoupled into separate assemblies.
- Properties of several modules were replaced with extension methods.
- Changes in the Ecommerce module
Read the whole article for detailed information about each of the changes.
In Sitefinity CMS 5.1, some of the modules were decoupled, i.e. moved from Telerik.Sitefinity.dll to a separate assembly. News, Blogs, Lists and Events are moved to Telerik.Sitefinity.ContentModules.dll and Ecommerce is moved to Teletik.Sitefinity.Ecommerce.dll. All types are the same and the upgrades to the database and configuration are done automatically.
If you use custom controls or projects, that are using the API of the decoupled modules, you have to recompile them after applying the following changes:
- Add a reference to the Telerik.Sitefinity.ContentModules.dll and/or Teletik.Sitefinity.Ecommerce.dll.
- If you are using the Fluent API for News, Lists, Events or Blogs, add aВ Telerik.Sitefinity using, because the fluent methods for those modules are moved as extensions in the new assembly.
For example, this code wonвЂ™t be working anymore, if there is no Telerik.Sitefinity using clause:
You must add aВ Telerik.Sitefinity CMS using:
In case of using the fluent API in .ascx/.aspx files, the Telerik.Sitefinity namespace must be imported:
The Sitefinity CMS team have done code optimizations in order to decrease the consumed memory and in the same time to increase the overall performance of the product. This lead to the introducing of several breaking changes in the Sitefinity CMS API. In general several properties (in-memory collections) of given classes were replaced with extension methods that return the same data via IQueryable collections. The main advantage of using the IQueryable collections when working with remote data source, is that you could perform an Out-of-Process data manipulation (filtering, paging, etc.), i.e. without the need of loading large sets of data into the memory.
Here is a list of the removed properties:
The following changes and additions have been introduced in the Ecommerce module:
