# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 6.0

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

Sitefinity CMS 6.0 Ecommerce has many enhancements and changes. In this article you can find many scenarios that might occur and how to resolve them the issues that might occur. Here is a listing of new Ecommerce features for Sitefinity CMS 6.0 (see published release notes for more):
- Multisite Implementation - ability to define multiple sites for Ecommerce using three Ecommerce providers (Catalog, Shipping & Orders) and settings for each site.
- Product Lifecycle & Workflow - products now have lifecycle (ability to exist in multiple states) and workflow support (ability to have workflows per product type)
- Site Synchronization Implementation - ability to Sync Products and Variations (including attributes and values).
- Shipping Provider Model - ability to have true pluggable online shipping providers. Existing providers have been moved to the new pluggable model.
- Additional Multilingual Support - added support for a true multilingual store, by adding multilingual support for Shipping methods, Payment methods, Discounts, Product Types, Custom fields for product types, Discounts, Taxes and Tax classes.
- Order Status History & Shipping Tracking Number - ability to have an order status log and enter shipping tracking number for an order.
- Additional Enhancements - a new Top Selling Products report has been added. Also a number of user experience scenarios with backend screens have been addressed.
- New Business Service Layer - two new business services have been added for developers to make modifications to the payment and shipping methods, this will be part of continuous ongoing effort where we will expose more services in coming releases.
