# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 6.3

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

The following protected methods were removed:
- protected virtual PageSiteNode FindAdditionalUrl(string[] urls, string rawUrl, out string[] parameters, out bool paramsMismatch)
- protected internal PageSiteNode FindAdditionalUrl(string[] urls, string rawUrl, bool ignoreCulture, out string[] parameters, out bool paramsMismatch)
The new methods to be used instead are:
- protected virtual PageSiteNode FindNodeByAdditionalUrl(string rawUrl, string[] urlSegments, out ISiteMapAdditionalUrl additionalUrlInfo)
- protected virtual string[] GetAdditionalUrlParameters(PageSiteNode node, ISiteMapAdditionalUrl additionalUrlInfo, string rawUrl, out bool paramsMismatch) protected IList<AdditionalUrlProxy> GetAdditionalUrlsByRoot(string urlRoot)
- All base interfaces related custom events in Sitefinity CMS are moved into a newly created assembly named Telerik.Sitefinity.Services.Events. As a result you can declare custom events without the need of referencing Telerik.Sitefinity CMS assembly. Note that you must add a reference to Telerik.Sitefinity.Services.Events.dll in each project that consumes/produces events otherwise you will get a compile-time error.
- Use spam protection image setting in comments module configuration is now moved from Default settings and Commentable types into root level. The reason for this change is to easily enable/disable captcha protection on your web site instead of doing this per content type.
- UpdateComment and UpdateThread methods of the CommentServise are modified to return the updated comment.
- Ecommerce Thumbnails
    To make use of the thumbnails, it is strongly recommended to update your css and Ecommerce widget templates if you use custom ones. Before version 6.3 system thumbnail was used on all ecommerce widgets. Now this thumbnail is used only if no thumbnail size, or if the thumbnails for the selected size are not generated. There are new css classes added for each default thumbnail profile as a fallback for css resize if one of the images doesn't have generated thumbnail.
- DoNotSyncInventoryAfterInitialSync
    Before version 6.3 on site sync all content for a product was been synced from source to target server. In version 6.3 we added an advanced property defined in Catalog Config section called DoNotSyncInventoryAfterInitialSync which is TRUE by default which means that we will not override inventory for products that have been already synced at least ones. If you want to work as before and sync everything always (the inventory as well) you need to set this property to FALSE.
