# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 7.3

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

The following methods:
- Manager, Provider - abstraction has been removed - from now on ISearchService should be used and an instance of it could be obtained from ServiceBus.ResolveService method.
- SearchService is now replaced by LuceneSearchService (and there are 2 new services ElasticsearchService and AzureSearchService)
- IField/Field value is now changed from string to object in order to support all scenarios.
- IDocument - GetValue method returns object (instead of string).
- Document class constructor has changed signature (as one of the parameters - mappings is useless).
- Document is no longer ICustomTypeDescriptor
- In Additional properties for search - HTML is no longer stripped
- Azure with Lucene is no longer forbidden and does not throw an exception (because there might be a way to use shared folder)
- Document namespace changed - Telerik.Sitefinity.Services.Search.Publishing to Telerik.Sitefinity.Services.Search.Model
- SearchService - no field/document factory methods - use new Field/document instead
- In the SearchResults class, the GetMetaField public method is now returning object instead of string: public object GetMetaField(object, string)
- The Search method in the ISearchService interface is now getting only one parameter - ISearchQuery:  IResultSet Search(ISearchQuery query); To obtain instance of ISearchQuery, use: var queryBuilder = ObjectFactory.Resolve<IQueryBuilder>();
    var compiledQuery = queryBuilder.BuildQuery(searchTerm, searchFields); Then pass it to the search service, in the following way: 
    searchService.Search(compiledQuery); This change affects all classes that implement the ISearchService interface as AzureSearchService. ElasticsearchService and LuceneSearchService.
- Also the GetValue method and the Value property are now returning object instead of a string: public object Value public object GetValue(string)
IManager interface has a new RestorePermissionsInheritance() method. The Implementation should call the provider implementation of this method. For example:  
this.Provider.RestorePermissionInheritance(securedObject);
