# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 8.0

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

- The abstract class TaxonomyDataProvider now implements the IMultisiteEnabledProvider interface.
- New property was introduced in the IWcfTaxon interface - RootTaxonomyId.
- New skipSiteContext parameter was introduced in the SaveTaxon and SaveTaxonInXml endpoints of the IFlatTaxonService and IHierarchicalTaxonService services. This new property determines whether the taxonomy should be resolved in the current site context.
- New deleteTaxaOnly parameter was introduced in the DeleteTaxonomy, DeleteTaxonomyInXml, BatchDeleteTaxonomy, and BatchDeleteTaxonomyInXml endpoints of the ITaxonomyService service. This new property determines whether the entire taxonomy should be deleted or only its items.
- New properties RootTaxonomyId and RootTaxonomy were added to the ITaxonomy interface. These new properties introduce relation between a site specific taxonomy and the taxonomy originally shared between all sites.
- The MVC designer will not be displayed for widgets that have a ControlDesigner attribute. This attribute states that there already is a custom designer implementation for this widget and now Feather will not interfere with it. If you delete the ControlDesigner attribute from an existing widget and recompile the project the widget will use the MVC designer and you can modify it as shown here.
- Breaking changes in the News MVC widget - the NewsModel class is refactored. To use the ContentDetailsViewModel, you must manually update your custom News widget's views. You can use the stock views of the News MVC widget as a reference.
- Breaking changes in the Content block MVC widget. If you have modified the client-components/fields/html-field/sf-html-field.html template in any of the resource packages, make sure the text area is bound to sfModel.
- In workflow *.xamlx files were updated the condition for skipping workflow.
    If you have customized a workflow *.xamlx file, then we recommend updating your customized file(s). Find the following (actual reference IDs may differ):
    
    <p1:FlowDecision x:Name="__ReferenceID209" Condition="[Telerik.Sitefinity.Security.Claims.ClaimsManager.IsUnrestricted() And workflowDefinition.AllowAdministratorsToSkipWorkflow]" sap:VirtualizedContainerService.HintSize="70,87" True="{x:Reference __ReferenceID207}" False="{x:Reference __ReferenceID208}">
    
    and replace condition:
    
    Telerik.Sitefinity.Security.Claims.ClaimsManager.IsUnrestricted() And workflowDefinition.AllowAdministratorsToSkipWorkflow
    
    with the following:
    
    workflowExecutionDefinition.CanUserSkip()
- Instead ofВ WorkflowDefinition, workflow now uses IWorkflowExecution definition instance.В 
    If you have customized a workflow *.xamlx file, then we recommend updating your customized files. Update the following:
    
        
        Find the the following:
        
        <p1:Variable x:TypeArguments="tswm:WorkflowDefinition" Name="workflowDefinition" />
        
        And replace it with:
        
        <p1:Variable x:TypeArguments="tsw:IWorkflowExecutionDefinition" Name="workflowExecutionDefinition" />
        
        
        
        Find the following (actual reference ID may differ):
        
        <p1:FlowSwitch x:TypeArguments="tswm:WorkflowType" x:Name="__ReferenceID208" Expression="[workflowDefinition.WorkflowType]" sap:VirtualizedContainerService.HintSize="70,87">
        
        and replace expression content:
        
        workflowDefinition.WorkflowType
        
        with the following:
        
        workflowExecutionDefinition.WorkflowType
- Telerik.Sitefinity.Workflow.Model.WorkflowDefinition.TitleВ is converted from Lstring to string.
