# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 8.1

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

- IDynamicListProvider interface
    New overload of the GetSubscribers method introduced.
    Added support for filtering, sorting, number of items to skip and take, and total count. These parameters enable you to improve performance when fetching items from the data provider and building list of subscribers.
- ISubscriberServiceservice
    New dynamicListKey parameter introduced in the GetMailingListSubscribers and GetMailingListSubscribersInXml endpoints.
    If you pass a dynamic list key, the methods return the subscribers from the respective dynamic list.
AuditField class
ConfigName property introduced to hold the name of the property that stores the names of changed configurations.
PresentationFramework reference added in the Telerik.Sitefinity.Services.Documents.Impl DLL file.
Configuration changes -  new properties introduced for bounce checks, retries, and bounce actions configurations.
Removed some properties not in use.
Extension of some templates for client components is changed from .html to .sf-cshtml. If you have customized a client component JavaScript code and you receive a 404 (Not Found) exception, you need to change the extension in template URL.
EXAMPLE: ctrl.dialogTemplateUrl = 'client-components/selectors/dynamic-modules/sf-dynamic-items-selector.sf-cshtml';
- New DLL file Telerik.Sitefinity.Mvc
    Holds all the code from the Telerik.Sitefinity.Mvc namespace from Telerik.Sitefinity CMS dll. 
    Preserves the original namespaces, so by adding a reference to the new Telerik.Sitefinity.Mvc DLL file, you do not experience any breaking changes.
- Telerik.Sitefinity.UI.Mvc project is deleted and its code is moved to the a new DLL file
- MvcProxyBase class
    
        Controller property is removed. When adding the reference to the Telerik.Sitefinity.Mvc DLL file, you get the “GetController()” extension method from the Telerik.Sitefinity.Mvc namespace for the MvcProxyBase class. The extension method returns the same object that the old property returns. Use this extension method as a replacement for the old Controller property.
        Context property is removed. The same property is introduced in the ControllerActionInvoker class from the Telerik.Sitefinity.Mvc DLL file, so you can use it as a replacement.
        ControllerFactory property is removed. You can retrieve the ControllerFactory using the following code: 
        ObjectFactory.Resolve<ISitefinityControllerFactory>() or ControllerBuilder.Current.GetControllerFactory()
- The existing MVC output cache substitution implementation, for example, the MvcSubstitutionControllerProxy and the ControllerSubstitution, is deleted as is no longer supported.
- Bootstrapper.MVC.MapRoute is removed. Call the RouteTable.Routes.MapRoute (System.Web.Mvc)instead.
- DynamicSubscriptionsListId removed from IMessageJobRequest and MessageJobRequestProxy. The dynamic list ID is stored in SubscriptionsListId property.
- New interface IBatchSender introduced for sending messages on batches.
SiteSyncManager
DeleteLogEntry(SiteSyncServer siteSyncLogEntry) method renamed to DeleteSiteSyncServer(SiteSyncServer siteSyncServer)
Configuration adjustments in accordance to the newly supported types labels, search indexes, and configurations.
