# API Breaking Changes in Sitefinity CMS 9.2

> Source: [Progress Documentation](https://www.progress.com/documentation/sitefinity-cms/api-changes-in-sitefinity-cms)

## Notes

The master identifier of life-cycle items is used as an identifier, regardless of the life-cycle configuration setting chosen.
Partially implemented validation checks on fields. Implementation covers:

IMetaField
ChoiceFieldDefinition - New property is added to support Export and Import functionality of the enhanced choice fields in the static modules.
- DataAccessReportView class is removed.
    Instead all SQL queries are visualized using SqlQueryReportView class.
- OperationDetailsView class is removed
    Instead details about queries executing during an operation are visualized using SqlQueryGrid class.
- DiagnosticsToolError is removed because the tool error screens is not required
- In ContentModelBase abstract class a new property  - SerializedDateFilters, is added. 
    It allows persistence of the selected date filters in the widget's designer.
- In ContentModelBase abstract class a new property - LimitCount, is added.
    It allows setting of max limit count of the displayed items.
- In IContentBlockModel interface a new property - WrapperCssClass, is added. It allows a CSS class to be applied on the wrapper tag of the default content block view with the following signature: string WrapperCssClass { get; set; }
- The view sf-filter-selector.html is updated to sf-filter-selector.sf-cshtml  due to localization of  the resource: Res.Get<ClientComponentsResources>().AnyTime
- Added new property - SerializedDateFilters, which allows persistence of the selected date filters in the widget's designer.
    It is added in INewsModel, IDynamicContentModel, ISearchResultsModel, IDocumentsListModel, IImageGalleryModel, IVideoGalleryModel, IUsersListModel, IBlogModel, IBlogPostModel, IEventModel interfaces and in SearchResultsModel and UsersListModel classes.
- Added new property - LimitCount, which allows setting the max limit count of the displayed items.
    It is added in INewsModel, IDynamicContentModel, ISearchResultsModel, IDocumentsListModel, IImageGalleryModel, IVideoGalleryModel, IUsersListModel, IBlogModel, IBlogPostModel, IEventModel interfaces and in SearchResultsModel and UsersListModel classes.
- It assembly Telerik.Sitefinity.Frontend.Events.dll, the view sf-filter-selector.html is updated to sf-filter-selector.sf-cshtml due to localization of  the resource: Res.Get<ClientComponentsResources>().AnyTime
